# Possible improvements for TEAMMATES from external projects

## John (telegram web): cleaner commit history

Contributors are responsible for squashing their commits to their PRs to keep history clean, However, this loses changes made when exploring alternative approaches. We can encourage cleaner history without going all the way to requiring all changes to be squashed and rebased.

We can consider requiring clean commit messages but allow multiple unsquashed commits, as a reasonable middle ground.

## Thenaesh (pandoc): merge faster for smaller PRs

In pandoc, management of issues and PR is informal, while TEAMMATES has a formal 3-level review process for every PR. In pandoc, small and medium PRs, are merged quickly. Formal process only for bigger PRs; 2-3 commiters will discuss it, contributor's responsibility to justify why the big PR is necessary. TEAMMATES can have fewer levels of reviews for smaller PRs to merge faster.

Other observations:

* CI not treated as seriously - TEAMMATES requires CI green for merging, while pandoc PRs can be merged with errors like not being able to compile on an older haskell version
* Everything that contributors need to know is in a document, but which isn't as detailed as TEAMMATES
* Code is well-written

## Li Kai (webpack): set up separate gitter channel to declutter issue tracker

Webpack uses a separate gitter channel for questions which is very active.

Other observations:

Webpack moves fast, despite being a huge project. They use 2 CIs (circle and travis); there are 2 setup environments where tests can fail, providing a larger safety net. Merging is done quickly without detailed review if the PR gets CI green. This allows them to accept PRs fast; just implement any feature as long as it comes with tests (may not be reviewed thoroughly though). Libraries can afford to do this; breaking something is less risky since users can just revert to a previous version.

It may be possible to implement a limited form of this for parts of TEAMMATES that do not touch the datastore. This may be especially useful in the front end.

Similar to zulip (below), using an external channel (in Webpack's case, gitter) may be beneficial in keeping the issue tracker less cluttered.

## Boxin (zulip): set up separate channel for discussions

Zulip is an open source chat platform similar to slack. It encourages WIP discussions on zulip itself to get early feedback. It uses Vagrant to provision the development environment.

It is especially possible to make discussion regarding in-progress PRs or approaches to solving issues on Zulip, instead of cluttering up the issue tracker.

## Dickson (sklearn): better-written documentation, developer utilities in one place

Sklearn has outstanding documentation, with a very high level of technical details. This is necessary for a machine learning framework, which needs to be usable by non-experts. The documentation is autogenerated in HTML, which makes it easy to both read and write.

Sklearn also has a set of developer utilities, all located in one place, which would otherwise be extremely difficult to find or require working with the codebase for a long time.

## Xiao Pu (checkstyle): use separate channels for communication

Checkstyle has a similar workflow to TEAMMATES, but only issues approved by maintainers can be fixed. They use separate communication/social media channels; TEAMMATES can do this to announce new features, and separate discussion/intro messages to forums.

Other observations:

* Good developer guide - providing a high level description while leaving the contributor to fill in the details.
* Uses many CIs and checks to test in different environments. Reviews provide high level feedback such as test case design, leaving style issues to checks. This ensures high code quality, but can be frustrating since the checks take an hour to run. Test cases can also randomly fail, which requires triggering another rebuild.

Similar to Webpack and Zulip, an external channel can be used for discussing issues/WIP in TEAMMATES. The extremely comprehensive Travis tests may not be veyr suitable for TEAMMATES, however, as the tests already run for over 30 minutes.

## Ming Shin (wordpress iOS): redirect help/intro messages elsewhere

Its a lot easier to find issues as the issue tracker is not as cluttered as ours - wordpress iOS redirects intro and help messages to slack. We can do this for GSoC-related messages (in particular) in TEAMMATES.

Other observations:

* Work is done on the develop branch; master contains code that is shipped to the app store. 
* They have paid maintainers. 

## YiMin (ESLint and Brackets): improve documentation

ESLint has excellent html documentation linked from their website, making it much easier to find. Brackets has a Pull Request Checklist; the documentation in TEAMMATES is more cluttered, and this information is included in a large document.

A PR checklist should be implemented for teamates, for the purpose of ensuring that new contributors don't waste maintainers' time by submitting an unreviewable mess 

Other observations:

* ESLint uses bots for mentions and checking for signiture of contributor agreement. 
* For bracket, the workflow is much simpler - there's only 1 person reviewing, and almost no tests. 

## Samson (matplotlib): use PR title to indicate WIP/ready for review status

Matplotlib uses `WIP` and `MRG` prefixes in PR titles to indicate PR status. This is better than labels as it doesn't require write access. TEAMMATES bot can be modified to update labels accordingly when titles change.
